# PluckedStringSim

This C++ program implements a simulation of the Karplus-Strong algorithm of generating a string-plucking sound by linking SFML sound libraries and image libraries for the driver program. The Makefile links all header and implementation files (as well as SFML libraries used) into an executable named KSGuitarSim, which takes no command line arguments and is run simply with the following command: ./KSGuitarSim
When the program is compiled and run, an SFML window displays a small keyboard image denoting what musical note will be played by which corresponding keyboard character. The note is played by pressing such corresponding character keys.
Additionally, the keys corresponding to characters in the following string will play a drum sound: 1as36h10

The principal purpose of the algorithm is to fill a buffer (constructed by a vector of 16-bit ints) with random frequencies, performing a "pop" on this structure and averaging this value with the value at the next index, scaling the result to a factor of 0.996, and appending this value to the end of the structure. The majority of this process is executed through the CircularBuffer files; the class defined in these files creates a copy of the data structure and defines our "pop" and "append" methods. The part of the program that fills the buffer with random frequencies occurs in the steps defined in the StringSound files. Here, an actual frequency can be created as well as a base vector containing the initial frequencies generated by the prior, which will undergo the process of our first class. The frequencies are used to set a sampling rate of 44,100 Hz and then to generate the actual samples by calling the functions defined in the CircularBuffer class. To generate a drum sound, the only difference is that the average between the two buffer items is divided by 2 in order to simulate much lower frequencies.

The main program does not play a large role in simulating the algorithm but it does follow the same rules (such as sampling rates), and it sets the frequency for each character based on intervals of 440.

******NOTE: A LINUX SYSTEM MUST BE USED TO GENERATE SOUND THROUGH SFML. A SECURE SHELL CONNECTION TO A LINUX-BASED SERVER DISPLAYED THROUGH A TERMINAL WINDOW MAY NOT GENERATE ANY SOUND UNLESS THE NON-LINUX DEVICE IS DUAL-BOOTED OR SFML HAS BEEN INSTALLED TO THE DEVICE.
